# Specializations
Upon earning 5 or more points in a particular skill, you can opt to specialize.  Specializations are specific areas within a particular skill that your character excels at.  In gameplay, Specializations allow you to roll for your specialization at a decreased base difficulty, rather than rolling your Skill.  Specializations also allow you to split your dice pool between different specializations or between your core skill and your specialty.

There is no list of specializations, you can create any specialty you can think of that would fit in a specific skill keeping in mind that you would get the most benefit from it by being applicable to actual situations in which you’d use it.  Examples of specializations are gambling (Luck), Three-Card Monty or pickpocket (Sleight-of-Hand), or safe-cracking (Lockpick).  

Once you have declared a specialty, you cannot undo it (i.e. there is no buyer’s remorse takeback if the specialty turns out to be unhelpful).  However, for every subsequent 3 points after the initial 5 in a skill, you may declare another specialty up to a total of no more than three specialties per skill.  It’s important to define your specialty when you declare it, making a note of it on your character sheet.  Be as specific as possible so that there are no (or fewer) gray areas later when it comes time to use it in-game.

Specialization scores can be increased as well, with each subsequent specialization score decreasing the base difficulty by 1.  No more than 5 points can be given to a specialization, at which point the base difficulty for that specialized skill would be 0, and could be considered an automatic success.  Specializations can, in turn, have even more refined sub-specialties, for even more specific tasks and a lower base difficulty (4).  Sub-specialties cannot have a score higher than 3.  An example skill tree that includes a sub-specialty could be: Lockpick | Safe-cracking | Magnetic Locks.

A Specialty can be a sub-specialty only if the skill can be considered derivative of the Specialty.   For example, poker could be considered a sub-specialty of gambling, but gambling could not be considered a sub-specialty of poker because poker is a particular form of gambling.  However, if poker was the Specialty, a sub-specialty could be Texas Hold-em.

In gameplay, you may opt to split your dice pool between your specialty (up to your current level in that specialty) and the parent skill.  If you have multiple specialties or sub-specialties (and they apply to the present situation), you may split your dice pool between your specialties and not use any dice in the parent skill.  No more than two Skills/Specialties/Sub-Specialties can be used in a single roll.  


### Example 
>Tim and Jessica are robbing a bank.  Tim has a Sneak score of 5 with a specialty in Finding-the-Holes, which he defined when he declared his specialty as being his ability to find security holes in camera positions and laser tripwires.  Upon breaching the bank, Tim puts all his Sneak dice into his Finding-the-Holes specialty to guide him and Jessica toward the safe without appearing on camera.
>
>Jessica has Lockpick 7 with a specialty in Combination Locks.  Once reaching the safe, Jessica splits her Lockpick pool to put 5 dice into Combination Locks and 2 in Lockpick.  The base difficulty for the Combination Locks roll is 5 while the base difficulty for the Lockpick roll is 2.  Any successes in Lockpick will be added to the task of cracking the bank’s safe.
>
>Jessica also has a Luck score of 8, with specialties in Getting-out-of-a-Jam and Run! (which she defined as her ability to evade the authorities when they’re onto her).  After the bank safe is opened, an alarm goes off.  They quickly grab as much cash as they can stuff into a duffle bag and try to make their getaway.  Jessica makes a Luck roll splitting her dice pool between Getting-out-of-a-Jam and Run! by putting 4 dice in each specialty to add a little Lady Luck to their escape.  By using Getting-out-of-a-Jam, she’s not only added luck to their immediate escape but also to their potential ability to evade authorities after they’ve begun their investigation.
