# Character Creation
The first step in character creation is coming up with a character concept.  This can range from an idea you had watching a spy movie to a fully-fledged character that lives inside your head.  Brainstorm ideas to make your concept coalesce into a real human being.  Where are they from?  What motivates them?  Why do they grift?  Are they attractive?  Ugly?  What do they like?  What are their dreams?  As you answer these types of questions, a narrative should form about how they came to be that way.  This narrative becomes part of your character and is the first, and possibly most important half of your character sheet.

A character is more than numbers on paper.  Even though this game was designed to have the ability to be played without a GM or Storyteller, that’s not to say the character is secondary to the numbers.  The characters are always more important, because it’s characters, not dice, that determine the outcome of a story, and I always encourage Storytellers to throw the dice out the window if it benefits the story.

Once you have your character’s backstory and know what makes them tick, the next part of character creation should be fairly easy.  Once you know what inspires them and lures their interest, it should be easy to figure out what skills are most suited to your character.  During character creation, you have 15 points to spend on Skills and are allowed to put no more than 3 points in any one skill.  This makes it possible to create characters that have 5 skills each with 3 points, or more well-rounded characters with fewer dice but a more diverse set of skills.  
