# Going off the Grid
Eventually, your reputation (Rep) will start to precede you, and more and more attention will be paid to your doings by both the criminal underworld and the feds.  To keep them guessing, it occasionally becomes necessary to go “off the grid.”

Sometimes, going off the grid just means taking a vacation and disappearing for an extended period of time.  But if you’re a grifter, it’s hard to even be on vacation without thinking about the next score, so it’s likely that your vacation will end up turning into another long con.  But since you can’t very well make it known that you’re still in business, extensive work needs to be done to establish you in a new locale under a false identity with no traces back to who you really are.

Going off the grid is something that should only be done when a character has gained a substantial Rep and is starting to feel more heat from the authorities.  When your character has gone off the grid, your Rep is reset to 0 for the extent of the time you are off the grid.  You will need to create a new backstory to support your assumed identity as well as an explanation of where you came from and a full history.  This is as much for character development as it is for your character’s own alibi, as this is the story that the NPCs your character will meet will be checking against – if there are holes in your story, it increases the likelihood that you’ll be found out and exposed as your true identity.

As soon as you earn 1 Rep point under your assumed identity, the GM will roll your Rep vs. base difficulty 6.  Each additional Rep point adds one die and subtracts 1 from the base difficulty, making it increasingly difficult to remain incognito when you continue to have success as a con under the guise of someone else.  A successful roll by the GM means your character was exposed and the gig is up. 

If you manage to keep a low profile and elude the authorities while off the grid, when you decide to go back to business, your character will receive -1 Rep (to a minimum of Rep 1) for each successful con you pulled off while off the grid.  This means that if you’ve got the authorities on your tail and are able to pull off a successful series of cons while off the grid, by the time you return, talk will have died down and you can go back to doing what you’ve been doing with less fear of being caught.

If at any point you are caught or exposed, _no_ Rep deduction will take place and, instead, you will receive +1 to your Rep for having blown your cover (_everyone_ hears when their favorite con fails, and everyone talks about others’ misfortunes).
