# Research and Dirt
The first task you and your crew will be presented with is finding your mark.  The mark can be someone you already know or know of.  It could be someone in the news.  The best marks are the ones not afraid to show off how much money they have.  Remember, you're looking for human weakness and how to exploit it – particularly greed and pride.

Once you've found your mark, it's time to figure out what makes them tick.  

A large part of the game is going to be digging up information and then trying to figure out how to use it.  Finding the information and how much information you're able to pull up depend on the dice and your Research/Dirt scores.  Deciding what to do with it will require your own ingenuity.

Like any other roll in the game, Research and Dirt are typically going to be rolled against a difficulty of 6.  The only time that might change is if the particular mark in question has done something to make it more difficult to find him (Going off the Grid, for example, could raise the base difficulty, since the identity of the person “off the grid” is just a smokescreen).

How much information you are able to gather depends on how many successes you get in your Research/Dirt rolls.  (A few caveats and notes in a minute.)  This sort of leads into the question “well, what's the difference between Dirt and Research?” since, more than likely, you'll be digging for both at the same time.

The key difference between the two (besides what's described in the Skills section) is where the information comes from.  You aren't likely to find Dirt while doing Research unless the mark has a criminal record (in which case it isn't really dirt dirt, since it's already sort of public knowledge).  Likewise, you might get some common knowledge information from your underground contacts while looking for Dirt, but it's the sort of thing that would be more work than necessary if that's what you're looking for (why talk to a mafia boss when what you need to know could be found in the daily papers).  However, when taken together, a lot of the information you'll find in their disparate sources will tie together and weave a cohesive picture, and it's from that picture that you will try to find the Achilles heel of your mark.

Unlike most other Skill checks, there's a finite amount of information available on any given person and when the well runs dry, that's it.  However, also unlike most other Skill checks, you aren't limited to just one attempt in a Research or Dirt roll.  You can choose to continue digging and try your luck at finding more information.  Doing so increases your difficulty by 1 each time since your character will probably hear the same sorts of things over and over after they've been doing it a while.  Also, Research and Dirt-digging take time, time which may be crucial to pulling off the con, and while information-gathering, your character isn't able to do much else (sleep, eat, maybe answer the phone).  
