# Combining Dice Pools
Combining Dice Pools is a geeky-gamer way of saying working together.  If two or more individuals share the same Skill(s), they can pool their resources and increase their chances of success to be able to pull off really difficult and challenging operations.  Combining dice pools can be done while researching a mark to decrease the amount of time it takes to gather intel and improve the quality of the intelligence obtained.  

To combine your dice pool, each player rolls for the Skill in question.  Remove the highest and lowest roll for each additional player adding their dice to the pool, and add the remaining successes.  This doesn't benefit you much if your Skill level is 2 or less and you're combining with one other character with a Skill level of 2 or less, but a character with a Skill level of 1 or 2 could benefit a larger dice pool including 3 or more player characters.

For example, my character has Research 2 and your Character has Research 1.  3 dice – the highest and lowest rolls = 1 die.  This is called the “I work better alone” effect.  However, if my character has Research 3 and your character has research 4, 3 + 4 = 7 – 2 (highest and lowest rolls) = 5 which is still greater than either of us could do on our own.  Larger pooling of resources have even greater potential.  For example, 3 characters with Research 3, 3, 4 would be 3 + 3 + 4 = 10 dice – 4 (highest and lowest rolls x2) = 6.  Like everything else, there are pros and cons.  On the one hand, you have potentially more dice and are able to pull out bad rolls (which could remove some botches from affecting your roll).  On the other hand, what you're left with is all the middle results, which may or may not be successful rolls.
